Description
===========

The Adept Software Development Kit (SDK) consists of the include (header)
files used to expose the application programming interfaces (APIs) of the
Adept System. Through combined use of the Adept Runtime and the Adept SDK
users can develop custom applications that communicate with Digilent's
devices.


Supported Operating Systems
===========================

The Adept SDK is supported by the same distributions as the Adept Runtime.
Please see the README file provided with the Adept Runtime for a list of
supported distributions.


Dependencies
============

The Adept SDK requires the Adept Runtime to be installed. The latest
version of the Adept Runtime may be obtained from Digilent's website:

http://www.digilentinc.com


Installation
============

Before installing or using the Adept SDK you must agree to the End User
License Agreement, which can be found in EULA.

The Adept SDK provides include (header) files which define the API
functions, data types, and constants used by the Adept System. Developers
who want to write applications that communicate with Digilent's devices
via the Adept System need to include these headers in their applications.
Header files are typically placed in "/usr/local/include" and 
"/usr/include". However, they may be placed anywhere on the system as long
as the compiler is provided with the path to the headers.

A bash shell script has been provided for basic installation. This script
simply copies the header files to a user specified installation location
and sets the appropriate file permissions. If no path is specified then
the header files are installed using the default path
"/usr/local/include/digilent/adept". Please note that the build scripts
and make files included with the sample applications have been written to
look for the headers provided by the Adept SDK in the default location. If
you choose not to install the header files or to use a different location
then it will be necessary to modify the build scripts in order to
successfully compile the sample applications.


Usage
=====

Documentation that describes how to use the Adept SDK to access the Adept
System has been provided in the "doc" directory. This documentation
provides a detailed description of APIs exposed by the header files and
shared libraries that make up the system.

A number of example applications have been included in the "samples"
directory. Please see the associated README file for more information.


Known Issues
============

Users may experience problems when using the Adept Runtime in a Linux
Guest operating system with VMware Workstation. VMware Workstation does not
pass USB SET_INTERFACE requests to Windows hosts. This can result in a
failure of communication between the Linux kernel and the device. This
issue typically only appears with older Linux kernel's that send 
SET_INTERFACE requests to a USB device each time a process releases an
interface. Linux Kernels 2.6.29 and newer do not appear to suffer from this
problem. The following distributions are known to use kernels that suffer
from this problem: CentOS 5, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5, and Ubuntu 8.04.

If you are using a different Linux distribution and you are unsure which
kernel version your distribution is using then you can execute the command
"uname -r" to determine the kernel version.

If you are using VMware and are experience problems while communicating
with Digilent's USB devices then you can try setting the following
environment variable: "ADEPT_SETIFWAEN=1". Setting this environment
variable enables a workaround for SET_INTERFACE requests. While this may
allow you to successfully communicate with Digilent's USB devices when
using Linux as a VMware guest it is not recommended as a permanent
solution. A better solution is to upgrade to a newer Kernel and use Linux
outside of VMware.

Testing has shown that newer Linux kernels (2.6.29+) perform significantly
better when communicating with USB devices. If you are using the Adept
Runtime to interface with one of Digilent's USB devices and communication
seems slow then try upgrading to a newer kernel.

Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4 / CentOS 4 uses an older version of UDEV which
does NOT create entries for USB devices in "/dev". Without these entries
a UDEV permissions file can not be used to grant all users read and write
access for all Digilent USB devices. As a result it is necessary to have
superuser privileges when using the Adept Runtime with either of these
distributions.


Author
======

Digilent, Inc.
support@digilentinc.com

